# 101.1 Determine and configure hardware settings

- BIOS: Basic Input/Output System
  The BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) is an old system that uses a text menu to boot the computer by accessing the first sector of the hard disk (MBR). This method is insufficient for modern systems, which typically adopt a two-step boot process. 

- UEFI: Unified Extensible Firmware Interface
  UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface). Started as EFI in 1998 in Intel. Now the standard. Uses a specific disk partition for boot (EFI System Partition (ESP)) and uses FAT. On Linux it's located on /boot/efi and the files use the .efi extension. You need to register each bootloader.

- PCI: Peripheral Component Interconnect

- USB: Universal Serial Bus

|            | A            | B            | B USB 3.0            | C      |
|------------|--------------|--------------|----------------------|--------|
| Type       | Type A       | Type B       | Type B USB 3.0       | Type C |
| Type Mine  | Type Mine A  | Type Mine B  |                      |        |
| Type Micro | Type Micro-A | Type Micro-B | Type Micro-B UBS 3.0 |        |

- Sysfs: is a pseudos file system rpovided by the linux kernel that exports informations about various kernels subsystems, hardware devices and asociated device drives.

```
  cd /sys

  cd /dev/

  // bus, cpu, disk, log ..
    
```

- proc: process and informations

```
  cd /proc

  cd 152

  //cpuinfo
  more cpuinfo

  //meminfo
  more meminfo  
  
```

- ls: list 

lsubs: usb list
lspci: list pci connect
lsblk: list disk
lshw: hardware
lsmod: drives 


- lsmod

```
  cd /lib/modules
  
  // rm mod: remove
  // ins mod: install
  // modprobe 
  
```

- Boot: Hardware > Firmware > Software

- Firmware: responsible for verifying and controlling the hardware before system startup.

  Hardware > Firmware > Bootloader > Kernel, Windonws or Unix

- dmesg : infos kernel

- init: inicializing of programs 

```
  whitch init
  // path: /sbin/init or usr/sbin/init

  
  
```
